Introduction
Thyroid disease (TD) is one of the most progressive endocrine disorders in the human population today. Prediction of the endocrine disease is a critical task in the field of clinical data analysis. Machine Learning (ML) has shown effective results in the decision making and predictions from the enormous data generated by healthcare domain. Various studies in the prediction of thyroid disease have given only a glimpse using machine learning algorithms. In this project we have proposed three models based on the primary dataset collected from 3772 patients. In these models, we have compared top three ML algorithms (Support Vector Machine, Logistic Regression, Random Forest) for effective classification.

Table of Contents

Introduction


Import Libraries


Read data from csv


Data Cleaning


Handle Missing Values


EDA


Inference :


Transform non-numerical labels to numerical labels.


Split original data into training data and testing data.


Handle Imbalance Data


Scaling (Normalization)


Build Models.


Classification Report for each model.


Conclusion
Thyroid disease is one of the diseases that afflict the world’s population, and the number of cases of this disease is increasing. Because of medical reports that show serious imbalances in thyroid diseases, ourstudy deals with the classification of thyroid disease between hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism. This disease was classified using algorithms. Machine learning showed us good results using several algorithmsand was built in the form of two models.¶